All right, guys.
So in the last video, we created an index HTML file.
We opened it inside of a browser so we could see how it renders.
And this is not the standard of how to create a document.
There are some other things that you need to add.
Even if we only wanted to display this in the browser, there's some other tags that we need to add
for it to be a valid HTML five document.
Now, before we do anything, I'm going to rename this file.
So instead of index, I'm going to rename it to zero one underscore basic underscore layout dot HTML.
Because like I said, I want this to be a sandbox so you can go back to and you can check certain things
and I want each file to be named after what, what we're doing inside of it.
So we're going to just number them so they're in order.
If you don't want to number of them, you don't have to.
You could call it just basic layout or basic or whatever.
But I want to be very specific and I want to I want you guys to have this for future reference.
All right.
So basic layout of an HTML page, let's actually just get rid of this for now.
So the first thing that you're going to want on every HTML page is the dock type.
So I'm just going to type this out.
It's going to be an angle bracket, exclamation dock type, usually all capitals and then HTML and then
closing angle bracket.
So this is a dock type.
And what this does is it tells the browser what type of document it is because a browser can read HTML
five, it can read HTML, it can read HTML 4.0.1.
So there's a lot of different variations of HTML, but HTML five is definitely the standard and that's
what you're going to want to use.
It's also it's also much easier than the others and it's less strict when it comes to tag syntax.
So I just want to quickly show you from the W three Schools site, which is a great site for reference.
This is a page all on dock types.
And if we go down here, you'll see that the dock type declaration must be the very first thing in your
HTML document before the HTML tag, which I'll go over in a second and down here it gives us the different
types.
So for HTML five, it's what we what we just did.
But then you'll see that HTML 4.0.1 actually has a much longer dock type because there's different variations,
there's strict transitional frame set.
And this has to do with what's allowed and what's not.
So it's gotten much easier over the years with HTML five, so we don't have to worry about these dock
types.
But I just wanted to show you that there are very different HTML has its own dock type, has transitional
frame set 1.0, 1.1.
But this is the only one that we have to worry about.
All right.
So I just wanted to kind of show you that.
So we're declaring this document as HTML five.
The next thing we want is an HTML tag, so I'll do HTML and then hit enter or tab and it'll finish it
for me.
And we just want to hit enter so that the bottom tag is down below.
And now inside the HTML tag, we have a head tag and then under the head we have a body tag.
Now notice that there's an indent here and v code will do this automatically.
If you're using something like notepad, which I would definitely not suggest, it's not going to indent
it for you automatically, so you have to do it yourself.
Now the reason it's indented is because both of these tags are inside the HTML tag.
This is actually the parent of these two tags and these are the children of the HTML tag.
Now the head and body are very different.
Head is for things like meta tags.
If you want to associate keywords with your page, it's basically just information about your page.
It doesn't actually display in the browser in the body of the browser.
Now one thing that you should definitely put in the head tag is the title.
So we want to put a title tag and again, we're tabbing it over because it's within the the head tag
for the title.
I'm just going to say my website.
All right.
Now, if I go ahead and save this, I'm going to do a control SX, I'm going to save the file and let's
open it up.
So we have our basic layout HTML because we renamed it and I'm going to say open with chrome.
And notice there's nothing in the body.
But if we look in the tab, we see my website, whatever you put in, the title tag is going to show
right here.
So it's very important for you to have a title.
Now, whatever we want in the body, we put in the body so we can put back our h one, say my website
and we can put our paragraph.
And we'll go ahead and save and we'll go back and reload.
And now we have our h one and paragraph in the body.
So anything that you want to show in this area is going to go in the body of your your document.
All right.
So you just want to keep this structure in mind.
This is the core, fundamental mandatory structure of an HTML document.
You have your dock type at the top, you have your HTML tags that wrap around everything.
And then you have a head and body area in your head.
You should at least have the title.
And in the body you just have whatever you your website content will be.
So the last thing I want to show you is how to create a comment.
So you might want to label stuff without it actually rendering in the browser.
So let's say I wanted to put a comment right here.
What I would do is put an angle bracket, an exclamation mark, and then double hyphen.
Once I do that in vs code, it actually auto completes the rest of it.
But this is the format of a comment, so I'll just say this is a comment.
So starts off like this and then it ends with double hyphen and an angle bracket.
So just make sure you don't forget the exclamation because that's not a valid comment.
And notice that it turns green in vs code to let you know that it's it's actually a comment.
And if I save this and we go to the browser and reload notice it doesn't show here because it's a comment.
Now in browsers you can view the source code, you can view the HTML source on a mac, you can do command
option u and on windows I believe it's control you and it'll open up a new tab that shows you the actual
HTML so you can see our dock type, our HTML tags, all that stuff.
It also will show the comments in the source code just to let you know that.
So let's go back and I want to show you how you can comment out something that's already there.
So if I just put my my cursor on this line right here in V's code, I can actually just do control and
then forward slash or question mark, the same key, the forward slash question mark.
So if I hold control and hit that, it'll comment the whole line out and I can toggle it if I hit it
again.
Control forward slash.
I can just toggle the comment.
If I wanted to comment out multiple lines, I could highlight them and again control forward slash and
that will comment out the whole thing.
There may be times when you want to just kind of not show a certain part of the HTML in the browser
and you want to comment it out and you can put this on a separate line as well like that.
That will still work.
This is all commented out.
All right.
So that's going to be it for this video, guys, in the next one.
I want to give you some tips and tricks with VS Code.
For instance, we can generate the basic structure automatically without having to type all this out
with every HTML page.
I also want to give you a couple of extensions that I want to recommend and that I'll be using in this
course.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.